# Hate-Speech-Detection
Aim is to detect & classify twitter texts using NLP techniques and Machine Learning. This project works on improving the existing work  and fresh analysis of the changes that occur when new features are introduced to the existing project.
We started by collecting data for the formation of our hate speech dataset which is a difficult task because what might be hate speech for someone might be normal text for someone else. To remove the unwanted content from the dataset, text pre-processing technique is applied where we remove the punctuations, tokenizing, stopwords removal, stemming, and removal of urls and mention names. The processed text is passed further for feature extraction where features like n-gram tf-idf weights, sentiment polarity scores, doc2vec vector columns and other readability scores are extracted and concatenated in different sets to fit into different classification models. These classification models are evaluated on the basis of accuracy and f1-scores in regards to different feature sets.   
Inspiration - https://github.com/t-davidson/hate-speech-and-offensive-language

The results clearly show that differentiating hate speech and offensive language is a challenging task. It also indicates the beneﬁts of using the proposed features, and provides a valuable resource for detecting the problem of toxic language on twitter. Although a detailed analysis of the features as well as errors could lead to more robust feature extraction methods and also help us in solving the existing challenges in this field.
